There's a lot of indigenous people here on the Downtown Eastside in a
lot of pain. And I for myself never really had self worth until
I started learning how to sing. Welcome, everyone. My name is.
My corporation or my colonial name is Cody Hunt. I come from the
Kwagiulth First Nation in Fort Rupert, BC. And I'm one of the leaders
at Culture Saves Lives here on the Downtown Eastside of Vancouver. Culture
Saves Lives is a program that focuses on bringing culture into stigmatized
areas. A lot of the indigenous people down here haven't had access to
culture in their lifetime. And we do our absolute best to bring that
in any facet we can. And the biggest part about Culture Saves Lives
is we always meet people where they're at. The effects of colonialism are
felt all across Canada, all across North America and all across the world.
But in BC specifically you can really feel those amplified in the Downtown
Eastside of Vancouver. Part of the reason for that is, is through colonialism,
through residential school, the 60s scoop and all sorts of things that go
along with that. Indigenous people have been displaced,
whether that has been consensual or not, meaning whether they've been forced
to run away or maybe they're running away from something at home that
they're not ready to face. And we just do our best to bring
culture to people that have been deprived of that their whole lives.
And it's not always true, there are a lot of people down here
that do hold knowledge. But the good majority of them have been deprived
of that. And I strongly believe that that is
a big piece as to why they're struggling so much with their trauma.
We're an outreach team as well as, I guess, a bit of a
cultural centre. With COVID, we're just starting back up to run workshops
again. So on Tuesdays we have Cedar Weaving with
Tiger, on Wednesdays we have Beating with Candice, and on Thursdays we're
doing a Kwakʼwala language class with Robert Williams, which is very exciting.
So those happen from 12:00 to 2:00, but
on a normal day we just go out on the street,
sing, or we'll open our doors in here and invite people in to
join us. I would be more than willing to say that stigma affects
absolutely everybody on the Downtown Eastside when accessing services. I'm
confident in saying that 100% of Indigenous people,
it doesn't matter the situation that they're in in life,
all Indigenous people face stigma in the healthcare system. And
a lot of times Indigenous people or people in the Downtown Eastside just
will avoid helping themselves because of the anxiety of
the experiences that they've had in the past. Anybody that I've interacted
with in the healthcare system that has been a positive experience has always
had compassion. A lot of the people in the healthcare system just can't
fathom the other person's position or what it actually means to be in
those shoes. And so that disconnect there creates a level of ignorance and
stigma that can be very overwhelming and is a massive barrier for people
to get the help that they need.